---
layout: post
title: Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.
date: 2015-06-28 22:35:00
tags: [lifestyle]
quote-author: Michael Pollan, In Defense of Food
---

I'm 48 years old, 6 feet tall, and 285 pounds. I am middle-aged and obese.
I have hypertension, dyslipidemia, Type II Diabetes, and severe obstructive
sleep apnea - not to mention Bipolar Disorder, anxiety, and depression. Every
day, I take 5 prescriptions for metabolic and mood disorders. Every night, I
sleep with the assistance of a CPAP device.

But, today, that all ends. Today, I'm taking back my life.

Almost ten years ago, I participated in a medically supervised
weight loss program called [20/20 Lifestyles](https://www.2020lifestyles.com).
It was quite rigorous, and very successful &mdash; I lost 85 pounds in 20 weeks.
I was able to stop taking my blood pressure, cholesterol, and Diabetes meds.
Everything was better &mdash; even (or perhaps, especially) sex.

The program prescribes both diet and exercise, both of which are tackled in
7 stages. The diet starts by removing virtually all carbs, then it adds back
one food group at a time. By the end, the diet resembles the one described
above by Michael Pollan.

As for the exercise component, it begins with a 30-45 minute walk at 65% of
your [maximum heart rate](http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/fitness/in-depth/exercise-intensity/art-2004688) 5-6 times a week. The program later adds stretching and weight lifting
components to help with flexibility and to raise your metabolism so you
burn more calories all day long.

Finally, there's another component to the program called non-exercise activity
thermogenesis (or, NEAT). Basically, that's a long way of saying that you need
to remain active throughout the day. To meet that goal, I need to walk 10,000
steps per day above and beyond whatever steps I get during cardio.

So, beginning this Sunday, June 28th, I'm going to do it all again. I'm going
to recreate the 20/20 program as best I can. I plan to blog about my progress
weekly.

Wish me luck!
